---
layout: recipe
title: Lechon
description: A short description
category: dinner
tags: pork orange garlic
preptime: 20min
cooktime: 20min
servings: 6
---



The seasoning is Bohio, with bitter orange and garlic. Once the pig is defrosted place it on its back,
Make your seasoning. For a 50 to 60 lb pig
o Mix in a blender Bohio with the bitter orange and garlic. Mix well.
1 bottle of bitter orange with garlic
1 bottle of bitter orange
½ of the minced garlic
20 table spoons of Bohio
10 table spoons of Adobo bitter orange

This will make one batch for the initial marinating the night before. Make another identical batch for the
next morning to baste the pig when you open it, also mix this batch with the liquid the pig will have in
the rib cage….get yourself a large spoon! And keep basting. 
Lift the thin layer of skin / fat over the ribs. This should peel right off the entire rib cage.  You
need to remove this completely, if you do not do this the seasoning will not penetrate the rib
section.
On the edges lift the skin from the meat. Start along the sides and work your way through the
back. You can do this now or after you turn the pig (cooked) and separate the skin from the
meat. This helps to make the cracker like skin.
Make sure you do not puncture the skin as you will lose the mojo while cooking.
Put seasoning all over the pig inserting in all four legs. Smother it, let it stand overnight.
Make sure you rub Salt all over the skin part that night as well.
Pre heat your caja china and place pig.
o Cover with aluminum foil
o Check the pig after 2-3 hours (don’t know how your box is going to function)
o Add mojo every time you open it. Scope up the fat in the rib cage and add it to the mojo
you have left over.
o Once the pig is cooked and the meat is done around the legs you need to brown the
ribs. Get all the mojo back that you can from the area and insert knife to break skin. The
rib area it needs to dry out to brown.  Add thicker mojo if you have any left.
o Place aluminum over the legs and sides exposing the ribs only.
o Brown the area.
Once that is done it is time to make the skin
o Turn the pig over (remove all aluminum foil)
o Get salt, water and a little bit of vinegar
o Give the pig a sponge bath
o High heat for an hour
Be careful not to burn the skin, move the charcoal to areas needing more heat.
o Continue with sponge bath (if you did not separate the skin from the meat now is the
time to do it. Cut a straight line down the back and insert knife between skin and meat.
This will help lift the skin from the fat and make the cracker.