---
layout: post
title: Guide to Rice
description: This is a short description
category: basics
thumbnail: rice
tags: rice
---

You're going to make a lot of rice in your life. It goes with everything and it's very easy to make. It's often one of the first thing people learn how to cook. These days, everyone has a rice cooker, which makes things way easier. Growing up, I remember abuela Clarissa making it in a big tin pot. It was beat up and massive, but she always managed to get the flavor just right.

Just like [onions](), there's a bunch of different kinds of rice and it's hard to know which one to use when. Here's a quick guide on the differences.


## Jasmin rice


## Basmatic rice


## White vs Brown rice
Some people swear brown rice is healthier so that's the option they choose.




White rice is very versatile and you can make a bunch and save it for days.


## Cooking rice

When cookng

### Washing your rice
Some people swear you shouldn't wash your rice, but as I mentioned before, big bags of rice have bugs and you don't want to eat those, so 1 - 2 rinses won't hurt and it only takes a few minutes. 


[^one]

### Rice in the microwave
My dad makes his rice in the microwave. Sure, this works fine, but would you rather eat a (metaphor).


To get the perfect white rice, you'll want a 2/1 ratio of water to rice. In most asian kitchens, they say, you check the water level with your knuckle on your index finger. This usually works nicely.

If you want to add a little flavor to your rice, add a bay leaf in while it cooks. 

If you want, you can also cook your rice with [[Sofrito]] to give it a bit of flavor. Just be sure to cook the sofrito and then toss the rice in to let it cook a bit, then pour the water in to let it cook. That way it will taste better.



[^one]: [Epicurious - Making the perfect rice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hnkVNVH3XzE)