---
layout: recipe
title: Mojo
description: This is a short description
category: foundations
tags: garlic onion orange
keywords: 
    - cumin 
    - oregano 
    - sour orange
    - bitter orange
    - garlic 
    - salt 
    - pepper 
    - olive oil
    - onions 
    - lechon 
ingredients:
    - 🍊 1 cup [Sour orange](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitter_orange) juice 
    - 1/2 cup Olive oil
    - 🧄 1 head of Garlic, minced 
    - 1 teaspoon Adobo
---

Mojo is a marinade used for special occasions. Family parties or nights when you want to cook something special for friends. Lots of people mix the quantities or percentages of the ingredients to their preferences. Some people like things salty, others prefer a lot of garlic. Either way, this is a good start.

___

<div class="recipe-ingredients">

<h2>Ingredients</h2>

<ul class="ingredient-list">
    <li>1 cup Sour orange juice</li>
    <li>1/2 cup Olive oil</li>
    <li>1 head of Garlic, minced</li>
    <li>1 teaspoon <a href="/foundations/2024/01/01/adobo.html">Adobo</a></li>
</ul>
</div>

___

## Instructions:

1. Mix everything except the Sour orange juice [^1] in your food processor or blender. 
2. Once you've got a thick paste, you can slowly start adding the Sour orange juice little by little. You're looking for the consistency of a slightly melted milkshake, not too thick, and just a bit runny.
3. Once blended, it should be **really** potent, tasting of garlic [^2] and salt. You'll want it to be almost too salty because this will ensure what you marinate gets enough flavor.
4. Rub the blended mix on your pork, making sure to inject some with a baster or syringe so it gets underneath the skin.
5. Cover with aluminium foil and let it sit in the fridge overnight 
6. When you're ready to cook, remove the foil and use the run off mojo in the pan to baste the pork again.

### Asides

Living in Europe, it was tough to find ==Sour Orange== easily, but do not subsitute this with anything else. You won't get the same flavor. 

Some people claim you can just mix orange juice and lime juice to create the same flavor, but there's a distinct difference.



[^1]: [Sour orange on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitter_orange)
[^2]: This is the footnote.