---
layout: post
title: Guide to Onions
description: This is a short description
category: basics
thumbnail: onions
---

A staple in most meals, onions can be used as your base or as a garnish. While it can seem like an onion is just an onion, they are very different and the onion you use can impact the taste of a meal.


## Yellow Onions
This is your workhorse onion. Most cooked dishes you'll make will use yellow onions. They are great for caramelizing and add a sweetness  to certain dishes. They also work really well with marinades like [Mojo]() and are used in [Sofrito]().

## White Onions
These onions are used mostly in things like salsas, guacamole, and fresh salads. They're much milder than yellow onions and when cooked, their flavor becomes even more subtle.

## Red Onions
These are your garnish onions. You see red onions on things like burgers, salads, and garnishes. You can also pop them into some salads, pickle them, or pop them into salsas to add color, but you probably don't want to cook with these, as they're going to be barely noticeable flavor-wise.


So basically, if you're going to cook with them, use yellow onions. For anything raw, use white or red onions.
{: class="callout callout-onion"}

Technically, you can use red or white when you cook, if you want a milder onion taste as they tend to be more subtle when cooked. 


## How to chop an onion without crying

There's no good way to get around crying when you chop your onions. Some people say  you can avoid the root or put a wet paper town on the cutting board, but the only fool proof way is to use your food processor.

The good thing is, the more you cry, the more flavor you'll get while cooking. The more cells you break, the more flavor you'll get. How you cut it depends on the taste you get while cooking.
